I am full-blooded turkey.
We were Indians, but yet we couldn't be Indians in the white man's world.
And now, you're telling me I got to go fight your war.
I was drafted during the Vietnam era when I got out of the very angry at the government.
I heard about this militant group of ladies that were fighting for the rights protesting
was a way of letting people know that we were not going to stand for this no longer.
I grew up in Ireland, in a family of ten.
We were Catholic and furry poor.
A sixteen, a joined army.
At school, we learned all about nationalism and the 800 years of fighting between the English
and the Irish.
When the conflict started in Northern Ireland, that had a tremendous effect on our lives.
When you see something happening, you see fallen soldiers killing your people, fellow Catholics.
I felt I had to engage and defend them against the British establishment.
My wife started studying.
I said, they come in here on a Christian Isis and civilisis and don't bring those
Bible-toten white people around me.
I don't want their religion.
After Nancy started studying, she decided to get baptized.
So the sisters said, are you taking her to the assembly?
I don't know, I said no, I don't want to stay home.
So the sisters said, who's going to watch the baby while she's getting baptized?
I said, oh yeah, maybe I should go.
The way they treated each other was respect.
One wasn't on this side or the other on this side.
They were all together.
They didn't just walk by and ignore me.
They brought people over and introduced them to me.
They spoke with sincerity.
I thought this is the way the world should be.
This is the way people should live.
I'm currently serving as an elder in the Illinois River,
Cherokee Congregation of Jehovah's Witnesses.
I have the privilege of teaching these ones that have moved here
to learn this Cherokee language so they can teach them the good news.
There's no other love, no horror.
This love is genuine.
I was in a cow accident and nearly died.
I started to drink because I couldn't cope with my situation.
I did expect that my comrades in the Republican movement
might have come to help us.
It didn't come at all.
I was studying the Bible three weeks with one of Jehovah's Witnesses.
He was very English and his wife saw English.
I wouldn't have chosen them to have come into my house, but they did.
And they were lovely.
Nobody came to see me only at the broader.
He would come regularly.
That to me was a godsend.
That someone cared about me.
And I thought, wow, everyone is fighting for justice in the war.
Needing fight, and that went right through my heart.
Sometimes when I meet ex-British soldiers in the truth,
I said to them, we're in the same army now, bro.
The only place we can find love and friendship and companionship
is in Jehovah's organization.